Israel's military says it has killed two
people attempting to mount attacks in
separate locations in the West Bank
following its dayslong operation inside
the occupied Palestinian territory
several car bombs exploded in different
locations including near a Israeli
settlement the militant group Hamas
praised the attempted attacks as a
message of resistance Israeli forces
have killed at least 20 people in the
West Bank in recent days including a
senior Hamas
Commander Palestinian children wait
patiently by the side of the road as
their families try to decide on a safe
place to flee to following Israel's raid
on the West Bank City of
Janine we left everything behind I have
around 10 to 12 children in my house and
all I wanted was to get them to a safe
place the house can be
replaced there are snipers on top of
every building in the Eastern
neighborhood shooting at anyone who
passes by the street if a curtain moves
they shoot as for social media there's
no internet no mobile connection nothing
my child here wears diapers and they've
been out of stock for the past two
days the city of Janine has now become
the center of Israeli
operations the Israeli police released
this footage it claims to show its
troops killing a senior leader of Hamas
and Jan
while he was
driving the Israeli military says
militant groups in the West Bank have
strengthened and conducted roughly 150
attacks against Israeli forces and
civilians over the past year in Janine
locals say Israeli troops are
surrounding the major routs leading into
the
city the real problems with the children
there's no baby milk
available and I've got a sick girl at
home with a high fever we weren't
expecting such things and the ambulance
can't even reach
us some Palestinians claim civilians are
the victims of the Israeli
rates clashes erupted here they hit a
young man he was just a young man merely
a child what did he do wrong they shot
him in the head and his brother is in
critical condition in the hospital
despite him having done nothing
wrong since the October 7 Terror attacks
on Israel Israeli raids in the West Bank
have increased significantly this is
Israel's most intensive and prolonged
operation in the West Bank in more than
a year nearly 3 million Palestinians
leave in the occupied
territory let now talk to journalist
balik sladin who's covering the events
uh from Tel Aviv for us um what's the
latest on the situation in the West Bank
yes so yesterday apparently two
Palestinians that came from a hibron
area south of the West Bank went North
to the giton area where one settlement
that um apparently a car has exploded
just outside of it in the patrol station
um aiming for the or actually to pull
the Israeli forces toward that explosion
the attacker in that car tried also to
attack the um forces there and he was
shot and killed uh in the same time
another Palestinian that came from the
same place um did try to enter the ketur
settlement um the same settlement and he
tried to run over the security guard
there unsuccessfully and after that he
entered the settlement the security
guard um shoot him or shoot toward the
car and apparently because of the
explosive inside that car it exploded as
well at least 10 kilograms of explosive
was in that car um we can imagine what
would have happened if that car exploded
inside the settlements among um or
between other civilians or settlers
right there in that settlements and
that's why we're seeing that the
operation that Israel is conducting
right now in Janine and also has
finished in places like tarim and the
Jordan Valley is the um direct results
of these threats from um some
Palestinian militants although that
they're still not named and also it's
not clear whether they are affiliated
with the Islamic Jihad or Hamas or any
other militant group but um that's
exactly the reason why we're seeing the
operation in the west now in a separate
development bik Israel has confirmed it
has hit a medical Convoy in Gaza tell us
more about that
yes apparently an age group that has
been operating since the beginning of
the war in Gaza um wanted to supply um
um Fuel and also Medical Aid for an IM
morati Hospital in the south of the Gaza
Strip specifically in Rafa at some point
after the aid group or the Convoy itself
has actually coordinated with the
Israeli Army other Palestinians armed
according to the is military has joined
the Convoy and led the Convoy now these
are the facts that we know but the ad
group itself says that these
Palestinians came to protect the Convoy
from any looting by other Palestinians
or other armed groups but the Israeli
military says that they are armed or
they were armed and that's why they have
been targeted because of the possibility
that they steal this fuel we've seen
that happening over and over again now
this represent the complexity in the
Gaza strip and the whole situation
especially because of the lack of the
alternative for Hamas or for any other
ruling um um party in the Gaza Strip as
long as the Israeli government doesn't
decide on that and also as long as it's
not possible actually to replace Hamas
as long as of course it still has the um
authoritarian capabilities military
capabilities then unfortunately we're
going to see such events happening over
and over again thank you very much
journalist B SL their reporting from Tel
Aviv thank you